UEFA Champions league: Group-stages come to an end
Tuesday 6th December 2016Group AArsenal managed to finish on top of their group with a win over FC Basel.The Gunners managed to find the back of the net thanks to a Lucas Perez hat-trick and A.Iwobi managed to score of a Perez assist. The home-side were devastated and only managed to find consolation in goal by Doumbia. (1-4)  Paris St-Germain missed out on top spot in Champions League Group A after a 2-2 draw with Ludogorets Razgrad. PSG were trailing with goal by Misidjan that put Razgrad ahead. Cavani equalized for the Parisians before the visitors went ahead again with a Wanderson goal. Di Maria managed to level the score during the 92nd-minute . (2-2)    Group BCallejón and Mertens both found the back of the net during the latter part of the second half in their game against Benfica but the the 2 goal lead was brought down by a late goal by Jiménez Rodríguez for the home side.Napoli finished at the top of group B. (1-2) Dynamo Kiev thrashed Besiktas in their encounter in the Champions league with a 6 goal victory over the visitors. Besedin found the net early on and Yarmolenko converted a penalty while Buyalskiy found the back of the net 2 minutes after. González added another just before half time to bring the score to 4-0.Sydorchuk and Ribeiro Moraes Junior both manged to beat the keeper in the second half (6-0)  Group CFC Barcelona out-did Borussia Monchengladbach to finish on top of their group with 4-0 win over the visitors. Arda Turan set Messi up for the first goal. Then it was the Turkish forwards night, with a brilliantly quick hat-trick between the 50th and 67th minute of the game. (4-0)   Manchester City came in second in the group with a draw against Celtic.It was the visiting team that drew first-blood with Roberts cutting past the defenders from the wing and beating the keeper. Iheanacho found himself running past the Celtic defenders to equalize just 4 minutes later.    Group DBayern München clashed with Atlético de Madrid in a game that ended with the home-side walking away with a narrow victory. Robert Lewandowski scored for the Bundesliga side from a free kick that found the back of the top-left corner. However Atletico finished on top with Bayern in second place. (1-0)The game between PSV Eindhoven and FC Rostov ended in a stalemate. (0-0) Wednesday 7th December 2016Group EBayer 04 Leverkusen managed to outdo Monaco walking away with a 3-goal victory. Vladlen Yurchenko and Brandt managed to score for the home-side whilst an own-goal by De Sanctis (Monaco) sealed the deal (3-0)Tottenham managed to secure a place in the Europa League knockout stage as their Champions League campaign ended with a  victory over CSKA Moscow. It was the visitors that opened the scoring with Dzagoev scorinf from the centre of the box to the bottom left corner. But the home-side equalized soon after when Dele Alli found the bottom right corner of the net. Harry Kane gave the lead just before half-time and Akinfeev (CSKA Moscow) slipped in an own-goal to seal the win for Spurs Group FLegia Warsaw  manged to walk-away with a win against  Sporting Lisbon.Guilherme’s (Legia Warsaw) right footed shot from the centre of the box found the bottom right corner. (1-0)    Borrussia Dortmund managed to finish on top of their group with a thrilling draw against Real Madrid.France striker Karim Benzema scored either side of half-time to put Madrid in control. Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang managed to find the back of the net and then Marco Reus scored an 88th minute equalizer .Those strikes also mean Dortmund took the record for most goals in a Champions League group stage, with 21. (2-2)Group GClub Brugge were kept at bay by resilient FC Copenhagen. Mechele (Club Brugge)  put the visitors ahead with an own-goal while Jorgensen sealed the win for Copenhagen (0-2)   Already qualified Leicester City who were already through, suffered the worst defeat by an English team in the Champions League as Porto recorded a massive victory to join the Foxes in the last 16. Claudio Ranieri made 10 changes to his starting XI and Porto needed to win to guarantee their place in the knockout stage. Valente Silva opened the scoring while Corona and Brahimi managed to net in a goal a-piece before half-time.Valente Silva converted a penalty during the second half while Teixeira da Silva scored the final goal to ensure victory for Porto (5-0)Group HJuventus beat Dinamo Zagreb to seal their place in the round of 16 and finish on top. Higuaín and Rugani both scored in the second half for the ‘Old Lady’.  Higuaín right footed shot from the centre of the box found the top left corner while  Rugani headed in from the centre of the box to the bottom right corner.Lyon and Sevilla ended in a stalemate. Sevilla will go on through with their finish as second in group H. 14–15/02/17 and 21–22/02/17: Round of 16, first leg 07–08/03/17 and 14–15/03/17: Round of 16, second legShare This 