Sri Lanka settled

2.1 Pre-historic era settlements

The literary source describes the era before the beginning of history, which is commonly referred to as the Prehistoric Era.
The prehistoric era of Sri Lanka consists of two cultural stages.
The first is stone age.
The second era is the period where plants depend intensively on food, and the use of metals and the establishment of permanent settlements.
Of these, the term pre-historic era is used to refer to the stone, and the second period is known as the pre-historic era.
Comprehensive settlement

Sri Lanka was habitually inhabited by ancient human horsemen.
The man was spreading to a wide geographical area adapting to different climatic zones of the country.
Their main subsistence strategy is to go hunting and gathering food.
There are two testimonies belonging to the Sri Lanka.
The first is gem mining in Ratnapura and its suburbs.
Some of the rocks that used to be fished and used by people from a very long period of erosion are usually found in these mines at a depth of 90 feet below the floor of the earth.
The plasterboards that were washed out of the rugged area were deposited in lowlands due to the heavy rainy weather in the Pleistocene terrain.
In the semi-autumnal region of Sri Lanka there is a coat of cloth covered with clay sandy soil.
Archaeologists have identified it as the name Iranamadu.
The Iranamadu structure was stored in short warming times during the Pleistocene era.
This gable floor is also found in the local stone tools.
2.1.1 Distribution of settlements in different climate zones

A community of people belonging to the Stone Age of 8 major eco-zones in Sri Lanka lived.
These zones are
(1 * Low country arid region
(2 * low country semi-arid region
(3 * low country Dry zone
(4 * intermediate dry zone
(5 * cracked dry intermediate zone
(6 * low country intermediate wet zone
(7 * Wet licking zone and
(8) Wet high raindrops.
Changes in annual rainfall variations are mainly considered to determine these environmental zones.
Rainfall variations have a direct impact on habitat and plant communities in nearby areas.
Consequently, during the Stone Age era, different varieties of food consumption and technology had developed in different ecological zones.
For example, the community of the lowland wet zone used sturgeons living on land to eat their food.
Different species of mollets are at low temperature in the wet zone.
But this condition is not seen in the dry zone.
They were hunted in the areas where deer, tallagoya, and mostly dried up in the dry zone.
2.1.2 Timeliness

In the Pathirajawela area in the southern province of Sri Lanka, stone era belonging to the Iranamadu plate was dug up to 45 feet from the surface of the earth.
It is confirmed that this wormwood was determined by the scientific analysis called an excited solar system, as it was 125,000 years ago.
The Wellampangoda area, which is 24 feet below the surface of the earth, is surrounded by a pavement with stones of up to 80,000 years.
Approximately, this period continued from 125,000 BC to 1800 BCE.
The dates of confirmation of the longevity of that culture have been confirmed in a few provinces of Sri Lanka.
Pahiyangala - 38 000 years
28 000 years old Kuruwita Batadombalena
Kithulgala Beligane - 15 000 years
Bellanbediadipalessa - 12 000 years
Attanagoda will be completed - 10 350 years
Maathiyamagama - 7 900 years old
Sigiriya Pothana - 5 800 years
Sigiriya eligala - 5 500 years
Upamala - 5 330 years
Mathota - 3 800 years
Henegahapugala - 3 370 years

2.1.3 Characteristics of Settlements

The prehistoric settlements in Sri Lanka were adapted to adapt to different environmental conditions of the country.
They were eager to live in abundant natural resources for food.
They have been found living in low country rainforest areas, dry zone forests, coastal lagoons and villu areas, slaughtering grasslands.
They preferred to live in plentiful areas where water is readily available and where they want to build stone tools.
They have lived in natural caves during the rainy season during dry weather.
Below are some such pre-historic detachments and cave settlements that are presently recognized.
1.
Minahalkanda, Bundala, Pathirajawela
2.
Pahiyangala, Batadambalena, Kitulgalabaligena
3.
Pothana and Alirigala from Sigiriya
4.
Bellanbædipælæssa
5.
Bandarawela and Horton

2.1.4 Lifestyle

The people of this era hunted down and walked with eating and drinking things.
So they spent most of their life in the tourist season.
In ancient times, they lived in natural caves.
They were organized as small groups of the population.
Usually between 15 and 25 members per group.
The maximum number of such a group was 50.
It seems that an area of ​​about 50 square meters was enough to live with a family of 5 members.
The place belonging to the Galuganga at Bandarawela Churchillhill is area of ​​150 square meters.
It is presumed that there are 25 people living there.
The place where the community belonged to the Bellanbrelless family lived at an area of ​​120 square meters.
From there, 30 human skeletons were discovered.
The nature of the food of this era was determined by the nature of the resources available to them in the living environment.
In dry season, they were put into temporary studios in open spaces.
The men searched for about 7 miles a day, searching for food.
The caves were buried in the caves sometimes because of the temporary existence of the caves.
Sometimes a hook or a piece of wood is dug in the hole.
Later, the bodies were buried in the pit and closed by shutters.
In the Kitulgala area, 12 skeletal remains were recovered.
There were 30 skeletons belonging to the stone era belonging to the Bellanwila Reservoir, an open location.
The skeletal remains of nine persons from Pahiyangala Cage were found in several stages.
2.1.5 Food pattern

Most of the factors contributing to the understanding of the food of people in the Stone Age are from the low country, dry zone and from the wet zone.
According to the evidence already found, animals that hunted for food have been found among the animals, cowhide, garlic mussels, wild boars, gonos, whales, mummies, seeds, hares, dadulena, hawawa, mugatiya, Vagina, Vulcukula, Habankukula, Pibira and Taloagaya.
A rich variety of freshwater varieties are also used for eating fruits and vegetables.
These fish have been caught by some of the bitter ones in natural waterfalls in the low country wet zone.
Among the foodstuffs used to obtain starch are the main wildlife of Waldelle and Destroyers.
Evidence of wild oranges seized in the kingdom of Kitul Pelagala in 1250 BC.
In addition, the starch has been eaten with gonal, kutala, kithul, and spinach seeds.
Testimony has been discovered in several places where food was eaten.
Prehistoric populations praised the eating of gambling.
Especially those in the fields of the forests and lagoons living in the low country wet zone.
The prehistoric inhabitants of the country went very far to get their own food on their own food.
It has been found that the remains of lagoons found in Kitulgala Beligene had been mixed with onions from the coastal areas.
2.1.6 technology

Stone tools are the only factor in knowing about this age-related technology.
But with stone tools from Ratnapura's gem mines and the foundations of Iranamadu, it is difficult to build a complete idea of ​​Stone Age technology.
Because of the lack of sufficient stone tools and the lack of knowledge about their dietary conditions.
Stone tools are used by archaeologists to find detailed information on Stone Age technology in Sri Lanka.
These are so named because people who are trying to produce them have formed stubble to give these tools a geometric shape.
Such a tool is not more than 4 centimeters (4 in) in length.
Micro-rock tools have been manufactured using mostly staple quartz and rock stones.
Overall, most of the Geopartition is a non-geometric tool.
These are hunted by hunting animals, cuts, pins, and mining.
In addition, the blades, millers, and millstones made of brass were then made.
2.1.7 Nature of the human body

The bones discovered so far can help to understand the nature of the human nature of the Stone Age in Sri Lanka.
The average male's height is 174 cm.
An adult woman is not more than 166 centimeters (166 in) in length.
They are large in size.
They had a wide nose and chin.
The size of an adult male is about 1,600 cubits long.
An adult female has 920 cubic centimeters.
According to anthropologists, the maximum life expectancy of the prehistoric man is about 35-40 years.
2.1.8 Sportsing methods

The Stone Age era of some sort of venerable sense of aesthetics is related to the grafting of those days.
The Badulla Ravanaella cave was found near the Badulla town by a clear explanation of the efforts made by such an effort.
A human skull pulverized in a split second appeared in an excavation.
The edges of the skull were laid out on the edges and the outermost parts were stacked, and red coats on one side were leveled.
The red cavernous fragments of human skeletal remains were found in the Pahiyangala cave.
It is evident from this evidence that the body was buried somewhere until it was exhausted and it was later retrieved by skeletons.
The skeletons found in Kuruwita from Batadombala were baked and bunched.
Researchers have pointed out that there are many cultural and biological differences between the people of the ancient Sri Lanka and the present Vedas.
2.2 Pre-historic era settlements

The period between the prehistoric era and the beginning of the historical era is known as the pre-historic era.
Technically this is a transition period.
The pre-historic era of Sri Lanka separates from the pre-historic age of the previous period based on several issues.
Beginning with the use of roast pottery and following the method of regular burial.
In the pre-historic era, stone tools were used instead of iron.
But the use of stone tools was completely abandoned at the end of the pre-historic era.
This era is known as the Early Iron Age and also the original Iron Age because of the use of iron.
Similarly, the construction of permanent settlements and the commencement of agriculture is another transformation.
2.2.1 The birth of the pre-historic era

We have limited knowledge of the transitional period between Sri Lanka's pre-historic era and the end of the prehistoric era.
Prehistoric Stone Age technology and hunting, the feed additive system, which undermines, rather depends on plant foods and the tendency to use metal, is not a patchy translation.
On the other hand, there is a strong reason to create such a transformation.
Such cultural restructuring in other countries is often affected by long-term climate change.
According to archaeologists and ancient climate experts, a climatic change in the entire South Asian region has been detected between 7000-4500 BCE in the recent mid-eve, called the Holocainean Era.
That is, after the end of the Ice Age, a better environment for the agricultural sector was created with the warming of the world.
Similarly, the population has grown significantly and through this a new social trend has taken place.
It is also revealed that the change in the climatic conditions in some of the earlier scientific events would have an impact on the prehistoric community in the country at that time.
The oldest factors relating to the prehistoric era in Sri Lanka date back to 2400 BC.
According to the present archaeological finds, the belongings of this era have been most clearly revealed by the northeastern Sabaragamuwa Province and the southwestern part of the Uva Province.
In the coming years, more evidence will be revealed about this in other areas.
Archaeologists believed in ancient Mahavila burial grounds and ancient settlements found in more than 50 places in Sri Lanka's pre-historic era.
The large caverns are then composed of a large cave covered with a large cave that has been arranged in a quadrature shape.
The burial pots are stored in the burial chamber. These are also called the Sula Manjuza Cormons.
Ibbankatuwa Mahasables Cemetery located near Dambulla in the Central Province and the burial place called Galoshan Kanatta in Yapahuwa and the Yatigalpotha Cemetery, which is located near Galewela.
The scientific dates for these have been between 750 and 450 BCE.
In addition to this system, Sri Lanka can be found on several burial grounds belonging to the Maha Maha kala tradition.
Some of them are baked in an ordinary clay pot, and buried in the earth.
For such tombs, the term kumbhane is used.
But they have not been determined for any length of time.
Archaeological excavations have been carried out in Haldummulla and Beragala, belonging to the pre-historic era of the Uva Province.
The burial grounds of these cemeteries are laid out in an unbaked basin, which is shaped like a basin, and is deposited in clay pots.
Before the burial, human skeletons have been cremated.
The boats, which were built on the flames, were burnt down.
It was the reason why they persisted for a long time.
2.2.2 Warranty

There are currently only three cemeteries and two residential places.
Accordingly, the date fixed is as follows:
Beragala Burial Grounds 2400 BCE
Haldummulla burial site 1750 BCE
Ranchamadama burial site 1350 BCE
Udaanachamadama Residential Location 1129

It is older than the tent clay burial site.
Moreover, when comparing with the imported pepper found in the cyprus burial sites, the discovery of meteoric burials is not only a priori, but also a weak variety.
There is considerable amount of stone tools from clay pottery.
There are rare cases of stone tools found on the walls.
Strong evidence that the stone tools are plentiful is an old one that confirms the ancient mathematical burials.
Two cemeteries similar to Mathikaru cemeteries found from the Uva Province and Sabaragamuwa Province have been discovered from Nawalawamulla and Attanagalla in Kalawatuwawa in Ruwanwella.
But they belong to the period of the Shill Manjusa Sahan.
Accordingly, the distance of the pre-historic era in Sri Lanka can be made up to 2400 Bc.
One day it shows that the lower level reached 600 BCE by one day on the Ranchamadama burial ground.
2.2.3 Type of settlement

An important feature in this era was the construction of permanent hunting habitats in the pre-historic era and establishing permanent settlements and habitats.
The main evidence of this characteristic of persistence is the housing repositories belonging to that period.
In 2009 such archaeologists were able to find such a house from the village Udarachamadama in Ratnapura District.
Its front and rear parts were partitioned with a wall.
The walls of the house were built from the cliffs of Vurich and the roof of the roof would have been roofed.
2.2.4 Lifestyle

There is still not enough evidence to fully understand the life style of Sri Lanka's pre-historic era.
The evidence for the ordinary life of the people at that time is limited in fact, for the time being, most of the excavations are in cemetery.
This information has been digested in Udarachamadama Residential place to some extent.
It was built in Udarachchamadham by a house built 3129 years ago.
Ancient buffaloes were found inside it.
There were a number of fragments belonging to a pit that had been painted among them.
In a white background red strips are decorated on the outside and outside of the loophole.
The symmetry of the strips is certain that it was constructed using the pylon.
Further excavations were carried out by digging a halt at Haldummulla.
There was a lot of tools in the search for local metro and toolbars.
Among them were stone tools and iron tools.
The presence of most of the collection's collection of stone tools suggests that the use of iron already had a new experience.
Among the other debris found in the mosque there were also bones that were hunted for food.
These are the bones of the deer, the cow, the wild boar and the dadullana.
These facts point out that they did not give up animal hunting, even though they were familiar with agricultural life.
Among the discoveries found were clay noodles, fur stems used for women's eyes, and two yellow and red spikes for coloring the body, including two mills is.
This evidence suggests that at that time women have shown great interest in beautifying their beautiful home.
2.2.5 technology

In the pre-historic era, the stone tools were gradually removed from the prehistoric times and turned into metal technology and pottery-making technology.
As a metal began to use iron, the people of this time were more efficient in their day-to-day work.
It was easier to handle jungle dumping, surfing and cybercaftoms due to an iron metal.
Painted dye found in Udarachamadame's ancient house points out the high-tech quality of the artificial melamine production industry of those days.
As the construction of houses began, the technical know-how developed gradually.
Especially the construction of the floor to not land, the construction of walls to the floor, etc.
A clay tablet has been found in the Udarachchamadama house.
This shows that the technology of beverage production was at that time.
A very sophisticated technique is needed to produce a pub.
2.3 Early colonial settlements

News describing the settlements that belonged to the historical era of Sri Lanka has historical backbones.
It's not enough information to identify the habitat sites in such a manner, but it's important to understand the nature of such settlements.
The archaeological evidence is of utmost importance in understanding the extension of the ancient colonies and other related information.
The early historical era dates from about 450 BCE to about 300 BC.
The key indicator indicating where the settlements in Sri Lanka were located in this period was the distribution of small villages.
Thousands of such small villages have been spread all over Sri Lanka.
The majority of the colonial era was centered on a tank and was close to it.
Archaeological fields have been discovered in the area that such gametes were located in one end of the bund in the vicinity of the tank.
2.3.1 The main factors influencing the settlement's hinterland

A major factor influencing the ancient settlements is the geo-physical background.
The annual rainfall value, soil nature, natural resources of the landscape, distribution, drainage etc. are among the major.
The settlements in the early historical era were due to the dry climate in Sri Lanka.
The region receives 1000-1250 mm in annual rainfall and is considered a dry zone and a region with less than 1000 mm.
Although the water required for agriculture is difficult to get enough throughout the year, the fertility of the soil in the initial settlements was due to the fertility of its soil.
Soil soil is highly suitable for red soil in the dry zone of the country.
These areas had two water routes for agriculture.
It was dominated by monsoon rains.
The water flowing through natural rivers was also beneficial in the dry season.
However, when using river water for agricultural purposes, rivers had to be dredged, and water was transported to the places where it needed to be done.
It's about putting labor in time and technology so that the focus is on building water by building water.
The results of the detailed studies of the development of the settlements of the ancient era indicate that the main habitats of the country span the countryside, not in the riverside valleys.
The main reason for this was the lack of sufficient technology to control the annual disaster floods that were caused by the rivers.
By flooding rivers and floods, flooding began in the late 1st century BCE or in the first century CE.
King Ilanagawa built by Tissamaharama tank (33-43 years old) crosses the Kirimadiya junction.
Brahmi inscriptions are inscribed in two caves situated in Ganekanda Vihara and Galenna Viharaya in Kurunegala District.
That's what it means.
2.3.2 Settlement and form of settlement

The populated areas outside the valley's torrent valley, centered by rainwater, are independent of each other.
Such settlements, centered on a lake-lake, have been erected in literary sources.
Such tropical villages are called Hunairiviyagamamala Viharapigamamala called Sumayapigamala in Mahavamsa.
One village is separated from another village by a jungle.
In addition to the rainforests, short stories of historical sources have been included in each of these independent villages.
Some of the huts in which the various professionals lived are in the pictorials and inscriptions:
1 Hooks - Villages where farmers lived
2 Witches lived in gems or gems
3 Gopalagama - Gopalan villages
4 Kawattagama - fishermen are spectacles
5 Kindbukarma - Buffer makers
6 Viddimism - carpentry
Apart from this, based on the work
Several other types of varieties were active.
7 Pitaganagama - villages that were connected to harbors
8 Niyamgam - market villages
9 Oligam - abandoned by the people
It is impossible to come to a definitive conclusion about the extent of the ancient colonies as to how far it was.
It was based on the diversity of natural resources in different geographical areas.
But according to evidence from archaeological evidence currently available, the small size of the village was not usually more than 0.15 hectares.
A medium-sized rural colony was two hectares, and a large urban settlement was larger than two hectares.
Usually about 5-6 families lived in a village.
In some large villages, there are 30 families, according to literature sources.
This situation changed in the urban settlements.
By the sixth century, the city had at least estimated 35 000 population in the old Magama town and the enslaved urban settlements.
Literary sources state that they have been preserved by certain villages.
Such villages were called "Pokekitha Gam".
These villages were referred to as 'apicbedite villages' without such security.
The term 'Pura' was used to refer to large urban settlements.
In the name of a Brahmi inscription dating back to 250 BCE, a designated name is "Swarnah Kamathata".
This is meant to be the chief architect of the city.
King Vijayabahu I (d.
The Panakaduwa Copper copper group of 1055-1110 * is used to name Anuradhapura as the name of 'Urumpira'.
Necra, a town known as the "Town", is mentioned in the ancient inscriptions on the island.
It is called a village called village, which is a settlement between villages and villages.
These intermediate settlements were coordinated to transport the produce produced in the villages to the larger towns.
They are rather large settlements that are larger than a village.
There is evidence to indicate that the organization and administration of these settlements had been systematic before the early period of the ancient era.
A village is a unit composed of several families.
Family is an important factor in a village.
A family member representation.
In Brahmi inscriptions, he was introduced as "Gahapathi".
The person who acted as a team composed of several people from the village households was called 'kamika' or 'gramaika'.
That means the head of the village.
Later these ten members of the German Chamber of Commerce engaged in a solution to the problems of administration in an area of ​​several villages.
In inscriptions, this board has been introduced by the name 'Dasgamgātānān'.
A inscription on the ancient Buddhist temple in Dambulla, Matale said that if there is any problem with the donation of the temple, then the rest should be solved and the problem resolved.
The foundations of ancient rustic homes were revealed from excavations done in Anuradhapura.
It was a shantytown consisting of wrought walls and leafy leaves.
Some of them are round-shaped.
Some houses have a four-sided floor plan.
Archaeologists have found only a barrel of remains in their places.
A village named in the village called 'Walagampattuwa' in Tissamaharama too was able to find an ancient house.
The floor of the house is made of earth with the surface of the earth sara.
It has been scientifically proved that the house was used in the third century CE
The opportunity to learn about the nature of human settlements in the ancient times was in this study.
It's a good example for you that they have been able to shape their life from a very ancient age, collectively and formally.
